by now you've seen the anomaly detection
algorithm and we'll also talked about
how to evaluate an anomaly detection
algorithm turns out that when you're
applying anomaly detection one of the
things that has a huge effect on how
well it does is what features you use or
what features you choose to give the
anomaly detection algorithm so in this
video what I'd like to do is say a few
words give some suggestions and
guidelines for how to go about designing
or selecting features to give to your
anomaly detection algorithm in our
anomaly detection algorithm one of the
things we did was model the features
using this sort of Gaussian distribution
with you know exciting new I comma Sigma
squared I let's say and so one of the
things I often do well will be to plot
the data upload a histogram of the data
to make sure that the data are actually
locally oh vaguely Gaussian before
feeding it to my anomaly detection
algorithm and it will usually work okay
even if your data isn't Gaussian but
this is sort of a nice sanity check to
run but by the way in case of data loss
non Gaussian the Algrim will often work
just fine but um
concretely if I plot the data like this
and it looks like the histogram like
this and the way to plot a histogram is
to use the H is T on the hist command in
octave but it looks like this this looks
vaguely Gaussian so if my features look
like this I'd be pretty happy feeding it
to my album but if I were to plot a
histogram of my out of my data and if it
was it'd look like this well this
doesn't look at all like a bell-shaped
curve right this is a very a symmetric
distribution as a peak way off to one
side if this is what my data looks like
what I'll often do is play with
different transformations in the data in
all
to make the look more Gaussian and again
the album will usually work okay even if
you don't but if you use these
transformations to make your data more
Gaussian it might work a bit better so
given a data set that looks like this
what I might do is say take a log
transformation of the data and if I do
that andrey plot the histogram what I
end up with in this particular example
this histogram that look like this and
this looks much more Gaussian right this
smells much more like the classic
bell-shaped curve that we can fit you
know some mean and some various
parameters Sigma so what I mean by
ticular log transform is really that if
I have some feature x1 and then the
histogram of x1 looks like this then I
might take my feature x1 and replace it
with log of x1 and this is my new
exponent about plot to the histogram of
on the right this looks much more
Gaussian and rather than just a lot of
transform some other things you could do
might be a that's let's say I have a
different feature x2 maybe I replaced
that with log X plus 1 or more generally
with log X maybe that's x2 plus some
constant C and this constant could be
something that I play with to try to
make a look at Gaussian as possible or
for a different future x3 maybe I
replace it with you know x3 mighty the
square root square root is just X to me
to the power of 1/2 right and this 1/2
is another example the parameter name
play with so I might have you know x4
maybe I'll instead replace that with
explore to the power of something else
maybe to the power of 1/3 and these all
of these this one this exponent or the C
parameter all of these are examples of
parameters in play with in order to make
your data and look a little bit more
Gaussian
so let me show you a live demo of how
I'm actually go about you know playing
around with my data to make her orgasm
so I have already loaded it into octave
here a set of features X I have a
thousand examples northern over there so
let's pop a histogram of my data when we
use the history X command so that's my
histogram by default I think this use
this 10 bins in the histogram but I want
to see a more fine-grained histogram so
history X comma 50 so this plots it in
50 different bins okay that looks better
now this does a little very Gaussian
doesn't so let's stop playing around the
data let's try just the X to the 0.5
it's going to take the square root of
the data and plug that as the ground and
okay it looks a little bit more Gaussian
we're not quite there so let's play it
the 0.5 parameter and set this to 0.2
what's a little bit more Gaussian let's
let's reduce a little bit more 0.1 yeah
that looks pretty good I can actually
just use 0.5 on this list reduce it to
0.05 and you know okay this looks pretty
Gaussian so I could define a new feature
which is X nu equals x element wise
exponentiation to the 0.05 and now my
new feature X nu looks more Gaussian
than my previous one and then I instead
use this new feature to feed into my
anomaly detection algorithm and of
course there's more than one way to do
this you can also have his log effects
that's another example for
transformation you could use and you
know that also looks pretty Gaussian so
I could also define X name equals log of
X and that would be another pretty good
choice of feature to use so to summarize
if you plot a histogram of the data and
find that that's pretty non Gaussian
this were playing around a little bit
with different transformations like
these to see if you can make your data
look a little bit more Gaussian before
you feed it to your own
although even if you don't it might work
okay but I usually do take this thing
now the second thing was talked about is
how do you come up with features for an
anomaly detection algorithm and the way
I often do so is are an error analysis
procedure so what I mean by that is that
this is really similar to the error
analysis procedure that we have for
supervised learning where we would train
a complete algorithm and run the
algorithm on a cross validation set and
look at the examples it gets wrong and
see if we can come up with extra
features to help the algorithm do better
on the examples that it got wrong with
the cross-validation set so let's look
through a of let's try to reason through
an example of this process in anomaly
detection you know we're hoping that P
of X will be launched for the normal
examples and they'll be small for the
anomalous examples and so a pretty
common problem would be if P of X is
comparable maybe both are large for both
the normal and the anomalous examples
let's look at a specific example that
let's say that this is my unlabeled data
so here I have just one feature X 1 and
so I'm going to fit a Gaussian to this
and maybe my Gaussian that fits my data
looks like that and now let's say I have
an anomalous example let's say my
anomalous example takes on an x value of
2.5 so plot my anomalous example there
and you know it's kind of buried in the
middle of a bunch of normal examples and
so this example this anomalous example
that I've drawn in green and gets a
pretty high probability as the heights
of the blue curve and the algorithm
fails to flag this as an anomalous
example now if this were maybe aircraft
engine manufacturing or something what I
would do is I would actually look at my
training examples and look at what went
wrong
with that particular aircraft engine and
see if looking at that example can
inspire me to come up with a new feature
x2 that helps to distinguish between
this bad example compared to the
my reading samples compared to all of my
normal aircraft engines and if I managed
to do so that hope would be then that if
I can create a new feature x2 so that
when I read plot my data if I take all
my normal examples that my training set
hopefully I find it all my training
examples are these red crosses here and
hopefully if I find that for my
anomalous example the feature x2 takes
on a very unusual value so for my green
example here this dis anomaly right my
x1 value is still 2.5 that maybe my x2
value hopefully it takes on a very large
value like 3.5 over there or very small
value but now if I'm although my data
I'll find it my anomaly detection
algorithm gives high probability you
know to data in the central regions but
you know probably to that sale it'll
probably to that an example and then an
example that's all the way out there my
algorithm will now get very little
probabilities and so the process of this
is really you know look at the mistakes
is making look at the anomaly that the
album is failing to flag and see if that
inspires you to create some new feature
as I find something unusual about the
headcrab engine and use that to create a
new feature so that with this new
feature it becomes easier to distinguish
the anomalies for me good examples and
so that's the process of error analysis
and using that to create new features
for anomaly detection finally let me
share with you my thinking on how I
usually go about choosing features for
anomaly detection so usually the way I
think about choosing features is I want
to choose features that might take on
either very very large values or very
very small values for examples that you
know I think might turn out to be
anomalies so let's use our example game
of monitoring the computers in a data
center and so you know we've lots of
machines maybe thousands or tens of
thousands of machines in a data center
and we want to know if one of the
machines one of our computers is acting
up doing something strange so here are
examples of features human shoes
memory users number this access to the
CPU load network traffic but now let's
say that I suspect one of the failure
cases let's say that in my data set I
think that CPU load and network traffic
tend to grow linearly with each other
maybe I'm running a bunch of web servers
and so you know if one of my servers is
serving a lot of users I have very high
CPU load and have a very high network
traffic but let's say I think let's say
I have a suspicion that one of the
failure cases is if one of my computers
has a job that gets stuck in some
infinite loop so if I think one of the
failure cases is one of machines you
know one of my own web server server
code gets stuck in some infinite loop
and so the cpu load grows but the
network traffic doesn't because it's
just spinning as wheels and doing a lot
of CPU world you know stuck in some
infinity in that case to detect that
type of anomaly I might create a new
feature X 5 which might be CPU load
divided by network traffic and so here X
5 will take on an unusually large value
if one of the machines is very large CPU
dope and not that much network traffic
and so this will be a feature that will
help your anomaly detection capture your
certain type of enemy and you can also
get creative and come up with other
features as well that maybe I have a
feature xx that's CPU load squared
divided by network traffic and this
would be another variant for the future
like X 5 to try to capture anomalies
where one of your machines has a very
high CPU load that maybe doesn't have a
commensurate ivar network traffic and by
creating features like these you can
start to capture anomalies that
correspond to particular unusual
combinations of values of the features
so in this video we talked about how to
take a feature and maybe transform it in
a little bit so that it becomes a bit
more Gaussian before feeding into an
anomaly detection algorithm and also the
error analysis in this process of
creating features to try to capture
different types of anomalies and these
sorts of guidelines hopefully that will
help you to choose good features to give
you an omni detection algorithm to help
in facture all sorts of anomalies